Record internal management guidelines for contributor PRs (#5283)
catalyst-cooperative/pudl: docs/dev/managing_external_contributions.rst

  metadata may be a natural point at which to takeover a contributor PR.

Unresponsive contributors
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Our general protocol is to ping after a month of non-activity, and to close
after a further two weeks if no response. We can always re-open a PR if need be.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Common contributor management decisions
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following guidelines cover several decision points that commonly arise when tending
to PRs from external contributors:

* Deciding when to merge
* Deciding when to take over
* Deciding when to close without merging

When to merge
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The standard of code quality for external contributors should be no higher than
the one we use internally, and the one we use internally is probably too high!
All we really need from a proposed change is to know that it is (1) making
something better without (2) making something worse.

This decision follows from 🐥 taking small steps.

We know that something is better if:

* It addresses all or part of an existing Github issue.

> 

Reviewer: I think we need to cut a line of whitespace here for formatting.

Reviewer: Removed it.

> The guidelines for external contributors can be found at :doc:`../CONTRIBUTING`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Looking to contribute to PUDL? The guidelines for external contributors can be found at :doc:`../CONTRIBUTING`.
```

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Common contributor management decisions
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> There are several decision points that commonly arise when tending to PRs from

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following guidelines cover several decision points that commonly arise when tending to PRs from
```

external contributors:

* Deciding when to merge
* Deciding when to take over
* Deciding when to close without merging

When to merge
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The standard of code quality for external contributors should be no higher than
the one we use internally, and the one we use internally is probably too high!
All we really need from a proposed change is to know that it is (1) making

> something better without (2) making too many things too much worse.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
something better without (2) making something worse.
```

This decision follows from 🐥 taking small steps.

> We know that something is better if:

Reviewer 2: To add:
- it addresses part or all of an existing Github issue

ask another team member for support if you are not sure how to proceed.

We would close a contributor PR if:

* The contribution does not address the issue they are trying to close, in a way
  that is not trivial to fix and suggests they haven't paid much attention to
  the issue.

  * Particularly relevant for first-time contributors

* The contribution is self-described as being opened by an agent.
* The issue being addressed was not intended for community contribution.

  * Example: a half-baked idea that requires more internal discussion

* The contribution does not address any issue and was not expressly invited by us.
* The contributor has not responded to our messages for 6 weeks.

  * They can always re-open if they are still interested.

* The contributor does not have a functioning development environment and cannot
  run the ETL, after repeated office hours or attempts to assist.
* The contribution requires ongoing maintenance beyond our capacity to fund.

  * Example: hand-compiled mappings for data subject to frequent updates

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> General procedures

Reviewer 2: We had talked about having our own internal timeline for review - this should probably get added here.
